Hi, I'm Andy DuBose. Senior
Consultant at Safety In Motion.
Let's experiene the range of motion in each leverage zone.
Please put your elbows in your green zone with your hands out like this.
Trainers, please assist as needed.
Now, put your thumbs up, like this.
The distance from the little finger side, to the top of your thumb,
is very close to six inches.
Please reach across your body
and put your thumb on your lowest rib.
Now put your elbow on your little finger.
Your elbow has moved to the outer limit of your yellow zone.
If your elbow moves this far forward,
sideways, or back,
you're still operating in your yellow zone.
Ok, back to the outer limit of your yellow zone.
Now move your elbow out into your red zone.
The next step is to feel how much more work your muscles have to do
to lift in the red zone, compared to the yellow zone, or the green zone.